docs: added tutorials for charmed istio (#2)
canonical/service-mesh: docs/tutorial/getting-started-with-kiali.md

This tutorial demonstrates how to deploy and configure [Kiali](https://kiali.io) to observe your Charmed Istio service mesh. You'll learn how to visualize your mesh topology, monitor traffic flow, and gain insights into your distributed applications.

## Introduction

Kiali is a management console for [Istio](https://istio.io) service mesh that provides visualization through a modern web interface. The `kiali-k8s` charm simplifies the deployment and integration of Kiali with [Charmed Istio](./getting-started-with-istio-mesh.md), offering:

- Service mesh topology visualization
- Traffic flow monitoring
- Health status indicators
- Configuration validation
- Distributed tracing integration

In this tutorial, you'll deploy Charmed Kiali to observe the Charmed Istio and the [Charmed Bookinfo](./getting-started-with-istio-mesh.md#deploy-charmed-bookinfo-application) application from the previous tutorials, enabling you to visualize and monitor your service mesh in real-time.

## Prerequisites

Before starting this tutorial, ensure you have:

- **Completed Tutorials**:
  - [Getting Started with Charmed Istio Service Mesh](./getting-started-with-istio-mesh.md)

>   - [Getting Started with Charmed Istio: Cross-Model Mesh](./getting-started-with-istio-cross-model-mesh.md)

Reviewer: I might find out the answer as I read further, but is cross-model mesh really needed as a prereq?  ideally we want the prereq's as simple as possible

Author: true CMR tutorial is an unnecessary req.

- **Working Deployment**: Charmed Istio deployed in the `istio-system` model
- **Juju Knowledge**: Basic familiarity with [Juju cross-model relations](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/stable/reference/cross-model-integration/)

## Prepare the Istio System

### Step 1: Deploy Prometheus

Switch to the `istio-system` model and deploy Prometheus to collect metrics from Istio:

```bash
juju switch istio-system

> juju deploy prometheus-k8s --trust --channel=2/edge

Reviewer: If we're pinning to a channel here, we should document why (and probably make an issue to remind us to fix it later)

Is this pin because track `1` doesn't have the prometheus-api relation?

```

### Step 2: Connect Istio to Prometheus

> Kiali works by observing the metrics generated by Istio. Connect Istio to the metrics store:

Reviewer: This statement is needed before we tell people to deploy prometheus.  Put it at the start of step 1 and it'll be clearer to the user.  Maybe just collapse steps 1 and 2 to one like this?

```
### Step 1: Collect Metrics from Istio

Kiali works by observing the metrics generated by Istio.  Deploy a metrics store and connect Istio by:
```
...
```

Also, istio-k8s, beacon, and ingress all generate metrics, so we should connect them all accordingly.  Beacon will be in a different model though, which requires us to deploy a grafana-agent to collect metrics and then push them to Prometheus.  Maybe that warrants an extra step in the tutorial to explain what we're doing and why

Author: The second point to me feels way too complicated. Id even say maybe we should spin up another tutorial and call it an advanced use case.

Author: Done. Added an issue to track this #13

```bash
juju integrate istio-k8s prometheus-k8s
```

```{note}
This metrics store doesn't need to be dedicated to Istio - it could also be the general metrics store used for the full [Canonical Observability Stack](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/observability/).
```

### Step 3: Offer Istio Metadata and Metrics

Make the Istio metadata and Prometheus metrics available for cross-model consumption. Both the `istio-metadata` and the `prometheus-api` relations will be later used by the `kiali-k8s` charms for visualizing the service mesh.

```bash
juju offer istio-k8s:istio-metadata
juju offer prometheus-k8s:prometheus-api
```

## Deploy Charmed Kiali

### Step 4: Create a Model for Kiali

Create a dedicated model and deploy the `kiali-k8s` charm:

```bash
juju add-model kiali

> juju deploy kiali-k8s --trust --channel=2/edge

Reviewer: We will need a `beacon` here too so that Kiali can easily talk to prometheus

Author: #12 covers this and the corresponding issue from istio-k8s repo - https://github.com/canonical/istio-k8s-operator/issues/74

```

### Step 5: Connect Kiali to Istio

> Consume and integrate with the data from the `istio-k8s` and the `prometheus-k8s` charms in the `istio-system` model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide Kiali with knowledge about our Charmed Istio and provide it with access to Istio's metrics, we integrate withthe `istio-k8s` and the `prometheus-k8s` charms in the `istio-system` model:
```

```bash
juju consume istio-system.istio-k8s
juju integrate kiali-k8s:istio-metadata istio-k8s

juju consume istio-system.prometheus-k8s
juju integrate kiali-k8s:prometheus prometheus-k8s
```

### Step 6: Expose Kiali via Ingress

Connect Kiali to the Istio ingress for accessing the Kiali dashboard from outside the cluster, for example, your browser:

```bash
juju consume istio-system.istio-ingress-k8s
juju integrate kiali-k8s istio-ingress-k8s
```

Now you can sit back and watch the deployment take place:

```bash
juju status --integrations --watch=5s
```

## Access the Kiali Dashboard

> Once the deployment is complete, Kiali will be available at:

Reviewer: nit: we should probably tell people how to get the ingress ip here.  I think we could make a k8s or juju command that'll provide it.

Probably we should add an action to the charm.  I think traefik has one for this

Author: this should then be provided by the kiali charm right? for ex ive seen catalogue do this, i added this to the bookinfo charm.

Reviewer: Nevermind, the current text lgtm
